[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: We're
all familiar with the notion
that we've been
manipulated as a society.
Eldon Taylor's new
book, "Gotcha,"
attempts to help you
find yourself amidst
the misinformation by peeling
back all that you are not,
and I think that was the
term in the book-- peeling
back all that you are not.
>>ELDON TAYLOR: True.
>>REGINA: And you know,
first of all, let's start
with the foreword of the book.
Your wife is saying, you've
been spending all this time
in self-help for
all these years.
What made you go the
direction of conspiracy?
>>TAYLOR: You know, and I don't
consider it to be conspiracy,
so I would correct that some.
There's a lot of talk
about tinfoil hats,
and that's itself a
manipulation mechanism.
Let me give you a case in point.
We have officials from
the CIA and the NSA,
and they testified before
Congress that they would never
use or spy upon Americans.
Then Snowden comes out, and we
discovered, no, they both lied,
that, indeed, that's
exactly what they're doing.
>>REGINA: Of course, yeah.
>>TAYLOR: We
recently had Vault7,
and we discovered
that the CIA has
all sorts of devices
they can use to spy
on everything that we do.
Your Samsung television
is watching you.
Your smartphone is
following everything you do,
picking up all your email.
They can remote control
your automobile.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>TAYLOR: OK?
Well, when you look at
that, is that a conspiracy
theory, or was that a factual
statement that was made--
>>REGINA: I agree with you--
>>TAYLOR: That it took
us time to catch up to--
>>REGINA: Embrace.
>>TAYLOR: Right.
>>REGINA: I mean there was
a saying that I really like.
It said "a better term
for conspiracy theory
is unspeakable truths,"
and I happen to like that.
That's my favorite.
>>TAYLOR: I agree.
>>REGINA: We know they're true.
I'm just kind of
throwing it, and maybe I
should choose my
words more carefully.
Conspiracy theory--
no, it's not.
These unspeakable
truths-- what made
you turn to an interest in
these unspeakable truths?
And you need to
know also-- and I'm
sure you do-- my audience is
aware of virtually all of them,
and I've done in-depth
interviews on almost every one
of them already.
And so they're familiar
with that body of knowledge.
What made you turn to
that body of knowledge?
>>TAYLOR: I don't
see it as a turn.
What I see is I've spent my
career trying to understand
why people do what people do.
As you know, I was a practicing
criminalist for many years,
so my typical day was made up
of running lie detection tests
or conducting a forensic
hypnosis session
or supervising an investigation.
And I would repeatedly hear
people use rationalizations
as to why they did
what they did that just
didn't make any real sense.
I remember one case.
This was a young fellow.
He was tall, good-looking, from
a good family, had everything
in the world going for him,
had a very pretty wife.
They had a baby that
was due to come,
and he decided that it
was his fatherly role
to fix a nursery
up for the child.
So he stole lumber
from his employer.
I picked him up in a
lie detection test.
We ultimately got
the confession,
and I heard this story
that, well, you know,
the home that we're living
in doesn't have a nursery.
It's not large enough, so
I went into the basement,
and I stole this
lumber, so I could
build a nursery for my child.
I just felt that I owed that
to my wife and my unborn child.
Now where I can
sympathize and even
empathize with that
rationalization,
it doesn't make any real sense.
The man gave up his life.
He became a felon.
He lost his right to vote.
Think of the impact of that
decision, that process.
What makes people
do what they do?
To me, self-help is
about understanding
who we are, becoming authentic
about how we live, what
we believe, why we believe it.
And it became clear to me
over the years of research,
more than approaching--
I'm dating myself
now-- but approaching
40 years of research,
it became clear to me
that people didn't understand
that for all intent
and purposes, it's our
subconscious mind that's
motivating, that's priming
everything they do.
In fact, today we
take FMRI studies,
and we watch the brain lifetime.
And if I were to
give you a problem,
let's say the problem,
Regina, was a paragraph long.
And I gave you a button for
your right hand and a button
for your left hand to indicate
A or B or true or false,
depending on the
nature of the question.
An MRI technician watching you
make your decision on average
will know six seconds before you
do what you're going to decide.
That ought to cause everyone
great pause right there.
Six seconds before you know
what you're going to do,
a technician watching
your brain will know
what you're going to choose.
>>REGINA: That
actually makes sense.
>>TAYLOR: Which button
you're going to push.
So it becomes incumbent
upon each of us
to explore what's in
our own unconscious.
I mean, the fact of the
matter is Benjamin Libet,
years ago, utilizing
multi-cranial EEG, witnessed
the so-called P300 wave, the
cortical evoked response,
occurring in areas of the
brain known to be unconscious
and theorized that before
there is any conscious action,
we get this P300
wave that indicates
we have action out of the
unconscious predisposing that.
Well, FMRI studies,
as I said, clearly
demonstrate that
to be the truth.
But the work of Libet started
this whole conversation
about free will.
If what's going
on, if what we do,
if what we believe, if what
we think, if all of that,
including our motor
movements, occurs initially
in the unconscious,
what is free will?
Do we have free will?
Well, most scientists
today would say no.
It's a grand illusion.
>>REGINA: They would if they're
looking at it from a material
science point of
view, of course,
but not if you're
looking beyond that.
>>TAYLOR: Well, I'm not
going to disagree with that.
>>REGINA: It makes
perfect sense.
>>TAYLOR: But--
>>REGINA: But you can't look
at the brain and the way
the mind works from a
materialistic point of view,
from a scientific
materialism point of view.
It doesn't work.
That's why all the conundrums,
why they don't understand
anything about the brain yet.
If they understood it more as
a processing unit for a larger
body that is feeding it, then
you have something different
called the subconscious mind.
You can't map it.
They can't map it.
There's no material way to
map the way the whole mind is
actually working
through the brain.
I think that's the big
problem, which, of course,
there would be a delay.
You could see a brain center
light up, for example,
in advance of a response.
>>TAYLOR: See, now I don't
disagree that the brain
is the ultimate frontier.
>>REGINA: No, it's not.
The mind is, but not the brain.
>>TAYLOR: I do agree that mind
is greater than the brain.
We have action of
mind at a distance.
We know that such
a thing occurs.
>>REGINA: Oh, Dean
Radin's work and so forth.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, all right.
Dean Radin is a good example.
You can take a simple
thing like remove
some of the glial cells from
your mouth, put part of them
in a Petri dish, take part
of them five miles away,
shock the Petri dish,
and at the same moment,
you'll see those [INAUDIBLE].
>>REGINA: Spooky
action at a distance.
Exactly.
>>TAYLOR: So we know
that there is actually--
>>REGINA: Mind is
not in the brain.
Right.
It's a processing unit.
I think once the science starts
looking at it as a processing
unit, all their
questions are not
going to be
mysteries any longer.
>>TAYLOR: But let's deal
with it as a processing unit.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: The processing
unit itself, for all intent
and purposes, has limitations.
Those limitations include
what Freud would call
our id, our ego, our super ego.
They would include
a Thanatos drive.
We're not free of
being an animal.
All those reptilian signals--
>>REGINA: That's very true.
>>TAYLOR: --systems,
they still exist.
We sometimes deny
our physiology.
You could take your right foot.
Do it right now.
Pick it up, and move it
in a clockwise circle.
And then write six in the air.
Then discover that,
wait a minute.
My foot doesn't remain
going in a clockwise signal.
I could sit you
down and give you
something to do
with your right hand
while you answered or
responded to stimulus
I was giving you very rapidly.
And the whole notion here
would be, identify that signal
every time you see it.
And if I put something
in your right hand, which
is connected to your
left brain, you'll
identify it far more
times accurately
than if I gave you something
to do with your left hand.
You'll fail to
notice it many times.
So there are some very
real physiological limits--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>TAYLOR: --to how we
process information.
>>REGINA: And the
reptilian brain
still works with our survival.
>>TAYLOR: So if we look
at processing information,
and we realize that
that information is
processed from the subconscious,
for all intent and purposes,
now whether it comes from
somewhere else, a larger mind,
that's another discussion.
Or it's just coming out
of our fears, our beliefs.
>>REGINA: That's all part
of the larger complex.
But I guess what
I'm asking is this.
I mean the original
question is, these--
because the book is a compendium
of various conspiracy theories,
under the loose term,
conspiracy theories.
I will call them a
compendium of various events
that I find to be factual.
And so these are--
the point I'm making
is the book is
a compendium of these things.
So what I'm trying to find out,
because what you're telling
me right now is we're talking
about like this man that wanted
to build a nursery
for his child.
and somehow had some dissonance
in his brain to think he
could get away with stealing
the materials to give
his family a better life.
And so I think--
I want to find out what the
link between that compendium
of material and this subject
we're talking about now is,
so we can go in a linear
progression from there.
>>TAYLOR: OK.
So in my own work,
it became important
for me to understand how
and why you got programmed,
because that programming
coming out of your subconscious
is predisposing
everything you do.
The conscious mind
is a 20/20 hindsight
on what the subconscious
is telling you to do.
So how did you get programmed?
Well, we all know
about inculturation.
We all naturally
are inculturated.
We know that we're herd animals,
and because we're herd animals,
one of our greatest
fears is rejection.
And so we immediately begin to
tend to the needs of the herd
in order to be accepted.
Now in that process, we
begin to take on beliefs,
and we begin to build defense
mechanisms and defense
strategies.
OK.
So if my belief is that
to be a good father,
I need to provide
a nursery, where
did that belief come from?
Each of us have to look
at what the contents
of our subconscious mind is
before we can become authentic,
because every one of us have
developed these strategies.
>>REGINA: The problem is the
subconscious is generally sub.
We generally can't
consciously access it.
>>TAYLOR: But it can
be made conscious.
That's the whole point.
>>REGINA: Yes, through hypnosis
and some of these things, yes.
>>TAYLOR: Knowledge is power.
Once you understand--
I don't know if you're
conservative or liberal,
but we have things
we call primes.
I could give you a
test sitting right here
at this table designed to scale
whether you were a conservative
or you were a liberal.
I could bring it back in a
week and sit you back down,
because let's say I want to
move you toward conservatism.
And I'll put a jar of hand
sanitizer on the table.
You will see that
your hand sanitizer,
even though maybe you might not
look at it like these crystals
right here, it presents a
subliminal message to you.
And that subliminal
message says, watch out.
Germs, danger-- beware.
Caution.
>>REGINA: Of course.
>>TAYLOR: Those are
the thought processes
of a conservative person.
What will happen is that
will skew your answers
toward conservative.
Now because there's a
consistency principle
among what we call
compliance principles,
if I point out to you that
you're answering differently,
you'll have a rationalization
for why you did.
You won't really have
the real-- indeed,
we take five automobiles,
and we take a beautiful model
in a bikini and
drape her over one.
And we ask men, which
one is the fastest?
They will invariably
choose the one
with the bikini-clad
woman laying over it, OK?
Bring them back a week
later, same five automobiles,
different colors, rearranged.
She's on a different automobile.
They will choose the
car she's on again.
>>REGINA: Of course.
And we're aware of that, yeah.
>>TAYLOR: Why?
Because there's a
threshold of arousal.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>TAYLOR: Then when
you ask them, though--
that's the key.
When you ask them, why
did you make that choice?
Can you see that last
time you chose this car?
They will again invent a reason.
If you're going to be involved
in the field of self-help,
in my view, the first
thing you need to do
is help people
understand themselves
in a process of
becoming authentic.
So to me, "Gotcha" was
the next natural step.
>>REGINA: But why--
I mean hundreds of pages of,
you know, these different--
whether it's GMOs or whatever.
Is it-- were you
trying to show us
the ways in which all
of the means and ways
in which we've been hoodwinked?
Is that the point of that?
>>TAYLOR: The point is to show
you the many ways that you
have been herded.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>TAYLOR: Is there an agenda?
That's the real question.
>>REGINA: Well, of
course, there's--
>>TAYLOR: Is there an agenda?
>>REGINA: Yes, of course.
>>TAYLOR: All right, so I
know you've interviewed--
>>REGINA: I know that.
>>TAYLOR: --and you're
familiar with Project Monarch.
>>REGINA: Yep.
Most of those topics I've
done interviews on, yeah.
>>TAYLOR: So there
are discussions
out there about
Illuminati and one world
governments and the elite
and so on and so forth.
There are many theories
about what's going on.
Are we being herded?
I once had a conversation with
Dewey Fillis in his office
at the-- he was former bureau.
At the time, he was chief
of police in Salt Lake City,
went on to Chicago to
be the chief there.
Fillis had an associate
who had attended
a meeting in California,
in San Francisco, where
they had laid out
an agenda to change
the nature of our society,
change the nature so that it'd
conform more to what some would
say is the path toward a one
world government
or a path toward,
we are simply pawns
in a larger game.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and we're
all aware of this, OK?
So go ahead from there.
Know that everyone
watching is aware of this.
>>TAYLOR: OK.
So there were three
things, three objectives
that they wanted to get done.
The first one was, break
down the nuclear family.
OK?
The second one was, create debt.
The third one was,
change our morality.
Now this meeting took
place in the late '50s.
If you compare where we were
post-Second World War in any
of those three categories
to where we are today,
you have to say, well,
they're either Nostradamus--
this came about coincidentally--
and/or an agenda is
being carried out.
Well, if there is
an agenda, what's
that agenda designed
to do, and how does
that empower us individually?
Or does it?
Because if it
doesn't empower us,
if it doesn't lend
to our authenticity,
then it's something that we
should be aware of at the very
least, is it not?
>>REGINA: Well, that's what
we've been trying to do--
I've been trying to do
for the last 13 years--
>>TAYLOR: I know.
>>REGINA: --is exactly that.
I mean this is what we've
all been trying to do.
And I mean there are
some amazing, I think,
instructive tools toward that.
My favorite is the film, which I
think it runs about four hours.
You can find it on
YouTube, and I'm
sure you're well
aware of it, the film,
"The Century of Self,"
starting with Bernays, right?
And looking at the ways in
which the public-- and that's
something as a primer
of course to anybody.
I think most of our viewers
are fully aware of all of this.
"The Century of Self" helps
us understand the process
of mass manipulation
on what seems like--
>>TAYLOR: The
engineering of consent.
>>REGINA: --the
engineering of consent
on kind of everyday levels.
This goes-- it doesn't, per
se, go into some of the darker
agendas that we're
aware of like Monarch
and some of these projects.
But it does explain
to people the ways
in which they've been
manipulated very beautifully.
So I always recommend someone
watch that, if you haven't.
And it's kind of
shocking for those
who don't know the
details of how we end up
in wars, how we sell war, and
so forth to get public buy-in so
that the military industrial
complex, for example,
can profit from it, and some of
their political allies as well.
>>TAYLOR: That's right.
>>REGINA: I mean that's
the backdrop for reality.
We know that.
And so I think maybe
the conversation that's
really interesting here
is then, let's look at it
from maybe your background
is in hypnosis, for example.
You have a strong
background in hypnosis.
Let's talk about it from
the hypnotic point of view
so that people,
even though they're
aware of all these agendas and
most of the cases you mentioned
in your book, let's look at
really practical levels of how
a person can start
discerning in the moment
when something
new is zinging in.
Let's look at it that way.
>>TAYLOR: Well, I
think for all intent
and purposes, if we're going
to become aware of what's
in our subconscious, the
first thing that we have to do
is become mindful, mindful of
every single thought that we
have.
And you know, we all
have aberrant thoughts.
But you know, we've
all been trained
not to acknowledge them.
We deny them.
We push them away,
and that's probably
the worst thing we could do.
Little Johnny is told in
kindergarten, oh, Johnny,
you shouldn't get angry.
Anger is not good for you.
Anger is bad.
Johnny, angry, you just--
anger is something that
you never want to have.
So little Johnny, to use
Robert Bly's words in his book,
"The Dark Side of
our Shadow," puts it
in this imaginary long bag.
>>REGINA: You stuff it.
>>TAYLOR: And so he takes--
you know, we take
all these emotions
that we have that we're
not supposed to have,
all these thoughts that
we have that we're not
supposed to have, and we
stick them in this long bag.
But we're dragging
them along with us.
We're never healing them.
We're never dealing with them.
We're never facing them.
We don't even want to
recognize they exist.
And then one day,
we blow up maybe
at our wife for no
reason, but there
have been stimuli throughout
the day that has us on edge,
and boom, we dump it out.
OK, what we should
be doing is looking
at each of these thoughts
and not in a judgmental way.
So I have the thought,
where did that come from?
Why would I think that?
When was the first time I
had a thought like that?
Is there-- is that a
thought I want to own,
is there another context
I can think about this in?
Context is everything.
It takes somebody either
in 5 o'clock traffic,
and you're in a
hurry to get home.
You've got tickets
to the theater.
Your wife or husband
is waiting for you.
You were late in the
office, and suddenly a car
cuts in front of you.
The natural reaction is what?
The middle finger?
Lay on the horn?
Adrenaline, cortisol, neither of
which are good for the optimal
operation of your immune,
endochrine, or [? ANS. ? ]
So how could I change that
context, so the next time
it happened to me, I
wouldn't respond that way?
Well, what if I
just begin to think
that if a car cuts
in front of me,
maybe they have a
small child laying
on the floorboards in the
back seat that's bleeding,
and they need emergency medical?
If I change that
context, suddenly, I
don't mind that they
got in front of me.
I'm blessing them that they
get on down the highway.
We choose the context.
We can volitionally choose
to change the context
and reframe all of
these so-called--
and in that process, we
begin to make uncoverings.
So we discover a
young man can't laugh.
He's in his late 30s.
He's considered a stoic.
He's not invited to any parties.
It's bearing hard on his
relationship with his wife.
They seek marriage counseling.
In the counseling
and uncovering,
a hypnotic
uncovering, revivifies
when he had his first
negative reaction to laughter.
And he's a small boy.
He's seven, eight years old.
He's with a group of kids, and
somebody tells a story that's
funny, and he laughs.
Tears come down his face.
He doubles over.
He smiles a little funny
because of a partial paralysis
on his face.
They make fun of his face.
They ridicule and criticize
him, and a defense mechanism.
>>REGINA: Right.
This is how the
subconscious works, yes.
>>TAYLOR: And so now
that defense mechanism
says, we'll never
be ridiculed again.
So we won't laugh.
We won't smile.
He finds many things
funny, but because
of that adaptation
at a very young age,
it changes his entire life,
impacts his friendships,
his family, etc.
These mechanisms are all
a part of who we are,
and in order to
flesh them out, we
need to get into
our own unconscious,
our own subconscious, and
discover what they are.
Hypnosis is a tool,
as you know, that
can be very beneficial in
that process in uncovering,
but just being mindful,
paying attention
to every single thought
we have, and then,
as I say, without
discriminating, without judging
that thought, simply
accepting that that was ours,
owning it, and then the healing
it, whatever it might be,
or changing its context.
That's a first step to any
sense of self-actualization.
>>REGINA: Right.
Meditation 101, be mindful.
Pay attention to your thoughts.
Most people don't accomplish any
of those things in the reality
day to day in their lives.
>>TAYLOR: They've been
trained to be consumers.
>>REGINA: And also, life
is zinging in so quickly
that there is not
enough time, even,
in most people's perception
to respond to anything.
You're multitasking.
Which of those things
are you taking in?
Which ones do you
stop and think,
why am I doing this, this,
and this at this moment?
So yes, I think mindfulness
is a great idea.
I mean absolutely, we
should all be mindful.
If you meditate,
I think it makes
it a little easier for
people to be slowed
down enough to be mindful,
for example, in your driving
example.
>>TAYLOR: Meditation is key.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
meditation is really key.
>>TAYLOR: We know that
you can change your brain.
You can increase
your gray matter.
You can rewire your brain.
Indeed, you can influence
the manifestation of the DNA.
>>REGINA: Right, we
can do all of that.
So again, I'm trying to get
back to all of these events
you're writing about and where
you're taking people with it.
Is it to show them, again--
because I want to progress it.
We know we've been hoodwinked.
We know that we're under
mass hypnosis, essentially,
all the time.
And so coming from
that point of view,
let's talk about the
pragmatic ways in which we
can break the hypnotic trance.
Again, most people's
subconscious--
I mean this goes back, some
would argue, for lifetimes, not
just even this lifetime,
what's carried around
in the subconscious.
And it is subbed our
ability to recognize.
So unless you do something
like deep meditation
with an eye toward this,
or unless you do hypnosis,
for example, the possibility of
actually uncovering everything
or a significant amount of it
what's in the subconscious,
that, in itself, would
be a lifetime endeavor,
if you just did that.
And you--
>>TAYLOR: Isn't that
what life's for?
>>REGINA: It is, and if you have
hypnosis or something to work
with, you could.
But not everybody is going to
pursue the path of hypnosis,
for example, to find out
what's rattling around
in there, unless it
becomes chronic or acute--
>>TAYLOR: I don't think
they even have to.
>>REGINA: --on some level.
>>TAYLOR: I think that's just
a tool in the armamentarium.
>>REGINA: It's a good
tool, and it is a tool,
and I've used it
plenty in my past, too.
And it is--
I think it's a very--
it's a commendable tool.
But let's just say for
the average person that's
watching this that has
a lot of knowledge,
they're aware of all of these
various agendas and such,
really kind of hands-on
ways that you're
going to thwart that
stuff coming in, aside
from the obvious, which we've
talked about many times.
Don't buy in to media.
Don't watch media.
If you just unplug
from media in general,
you're not going
to be programmed,
and then how do you go about
choosing to educate yourself
on the affairs of the
world, and then discerning?
Really practical
things like that-- what
do you recommend to people?
>>TAYLOR: See, I don't think--
I'm not one that says
unplug from media.
Indeed, I spend a good deal of
time paying attention to media.
I'll give you an example.
One morning I'm
watching two networks.
One's a conservative.
The other's a liberal network.
They're having a poll.
It's the same poll.
>>REGINA: Each one is
skewing for their audience.
>>TAYLOR: We are
creatures that want
to hear what we want to hear.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>TAYLOR: We look for feedback
that tells us we're right.
So I happen to be liberal.
I'm going to listen to liberal.
I'm not going to go to Fox.
If I happen to be
conservative, I'm
certainly not going to MSNBC.
So on this same
day on one network,
we have the question posed,
"should poor taxpayers be
forced to work two jobs in order
to pay for their children's
education and put them
in private schools,
since our public education
system is failing?"
On the other network, the
question goes this way.
Should poor taxpayers be
forced to pay for rich kids
to go to private school?
Now the issue is
about school vouchers.
>>REGINA: Right, this is how
the network's positioned-- it's
how the media positions it.
>>TAYLOR: Now I don't believe
you can be spiritual and not
be involved in the
world, because well,
we can get into that.
I'll stay on point
for the moment.
So here we are.
If I happen to be
liberal, I just
ingested this new sound
bite, and right away, I'm
opposed to school vouchers.
And if I happen to
be conservative,
I'm pro-school vouchers.
And I will go out, and I will
argue with whoever using that
background, never knowing
what a school voucher is,
where the money comes from, how
it impacts public education,
who uses it,
dah-dah-dah-dah-dah.
>>REGINA: And you'll defend it.
>>TAYLOR: So I believe
we need to be informed,
and the only way--
>>REGINA: Neither one of those
positions is being informed.
>>TAYLOR: Neither of those are--
>>REGINA: That's what
we have to take--
>>TAYLOR: I need to go
seek out the knowledge.
What is a school voucher?
Where does the money come from?
Etc and so forth.
>>REGINA: Yeah, do your
own research on the topic.
>>TAYLOR: I have to.
>>REGINA: But let's
take this further.
>>TAYLOR: That means I'm
a responsible citizen.
See, if I don't take the role
as a responsible citizen,
I fulfill Bernays' philosophy.
Your fans all know
about Bernays.
>>REGINA: They all
know this stuff.
>>TAYLOR: Nephew
of Sigmund Freud.
>>REGINA: That's why I
suggested "Century of Self."
>>TAYLOR: Bernays said
we're not smart enough--
>>REGINA: To make
our own decisions.
>>TAYLOR: --to live
in a democracy.
We need to be
orchestrated in order
to have a cohesive society.
Is that true?
Well, it's only true
if I let it be true.
But it's absolutely true.
>>REGINA: So let's go into
this example you used.
This is a good example, right?
So you're being lied to
by both media sources.
That's how it is.
That's how it works.
It's only to support your frame.
It's only to support
itself and its advertisers.
There's no other point to either
one of those media sources.
>>TAYLOR: That's right.
>>REGINA: So you're in a
consumer machine of advertising
and positions that
are going to position
that advertiser in front
of that conservative viewer
and this one in front
of this network in front
of that, liberal buyer.
These are just
buyer-consumer issues.
It's not about news.
It's not about truth.
So you've been misinformed
on each of these.
OK?
Now let's get into
more psychological,
because that's really
your background.
Let's just look at more of
the psychological components
of this.
What is it in us that once
we grab on to an idea,
insists on defending
it to the death,
whether we even believe
it's true or not?
So let's talk about more
psychological factors.
I think that's interesting.
>>TAYLOR: So there's what we
call compliance principles.
One of those compliance
principles is consistency.
If I'm going to
be consistent, let
me give you a kind of
a study that was done.
If I come to your
home with a placard
to go into your window
to support an issue--
feed the poor--
and I convince you
that you would make a great
contribution to just put
this placard in your window,
front window of your home,
to support this idea, you
are 10 times more likely
to let me put a
billboard on your yard
than you would be if you didn't
put the placard in your window.
>>REGINA: Of course.
There's already a
history of compliance.
>>TAYLOR: The reason is
you need to be consistent.
If I vote a certain
way, I need to defend
how I voted, because otherwise,
I'm admitting that I was wrong.
We have a need not just to
be right, to be consistent.
The compliance principles
exist of a number of them--
reciprocity.
Reciprocity is one merchants
use on us all the time.
We get something free.
We feel a sense of obligation.
So I am a charity,
and I send you a dime,
or I send you a gift,
all these return labels.
Because you accept the gift, you
feel more inclined to respond.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's a
manipulation, and yeah.
>>TAYLOR: That's right.
We are hardwired in some ways
that predisposes that way.
We know watching the brain
lifetime that if I sign
a check, just signing a check to
a charity I really care about--
my favorite's Women for Women--
I sign their check.
The reward centers
in my brain light up.
In other words,
I am being bathed
with those great
neurochemicals and the body's
natural opiates--
>>REGINA: Because of
your intention, yeah.
>>TAYLOR: That's right,
because I'm hardwired to help,
to give, to be
involved, to care.
So psychologically speaking,
understanding that we
are built in a mechanical way--
and I am not one that believes
that the human condition is
simply a meat machine
that has evolved
through some Darwinian
process in the materialistic
reductionist sense.
I don't believe that at all.
That's all nonsense in my view.
But we're nevertheless--
we nevertheless
operate in very
mechanical ways, very
predictive mechanical ways.
You know all about media.
You spent a career
in media, so you
know that demographics
are key to advertisers.
But today we have
psychographics.
Psychographics takes the great
ocean, the five principle
primary--
>>REGINA: Data mining.
It's possible by
data mining, Facebook
being one of the
primary contributors.
>>TAYLOR: Well, if
you look recently
at Cambridge Analytics,
Cambridge Analytics
combined psychographic knowledge
with demographic knowledge,
allegedly, they claim,
to elect Donald Trump.
All right.
What makes psychographics work?
Personality.
What forms our personality?
When I went to
college, I was taught
that personality is fixed.
It's like IQ or brain cells
that die at the age of 30
and don't regenerate themselves.
All of that's false to fact,
but that's nevertheless
what I was taught.
Today we would say changing
your personality is the best
way in the world for you
to make your next step
in self-improvement.
But we're going to look
at your personality,
and we're going to look at
just how outgoing you are,
how agreeable you are,
your scale of neuroticism,
your extroversion, introversion.
We're going to look at these
primary characteristics
of human personality,
and then we're
going to say, well, if we
want to persuade this person,
they tend to be liberal,
but they're also Catholic,
religious.
We can approach this
person by talking
to them about right for life.
We can persuade them
to move our direction.
So what happens is billions
and billions of dollars
have been spent by governments
and private merchandisers
to understand our psychology.
We don't spend five
minutes to understand it,
but they have spent billions.
And now they gained the
ability to tweak us,
so we know that, look, there's a
group think problem that we all
need to be aware of.
If you get 20 people together,
19 of them are Confederates.
One of them is a subject, and
you begin to show them lines,
and you ask them, which
line is the longest?
This is a study that's been
replicated many, many times.
19 of them say the shorter
line is the longest.
The first one that's not the
Confederate, the subject,
initially may say, no,
that's the longer line.
But after two or
three passes, they
will deny what they
physically see in order
to go along with the group.
So we have this high
of consciousness,
this group think that goes on.
So what happens to many of us is
we get caught in a group think,
and we follow along
with that group think.
They understand this, those
people who would manipulate us,
that would move us.
>>REGINA: Of course, yeah.
>>TAYLOR: So they can take
search engine results,
and they can shove something
artificially to the top,
and we'll follow suit, because
that's what everybody believes.
That's what everybody thinks.
That is the group think.
That's how we work.
Understanding--
"Gotcha" contains
all of these
psychological mechanisms.
It contains all of
the ways that we
have been massaged, including
some of the most horrific ways
that government has betrayed us.
We trust the media.
We used to.
Today people talk
about fake news,
but we used to trust the media.
I remember Edward R Murrow.
I would ingest
everything he said.
He had to be right.
He was a news reporter.
He only brought you
facts, didn't he?
But the world has changed.
It's all driven
now by consumption.
Remember the three principles
that we talked about earlier
and that were part
of the agenda?
Debt-- if we can
keep you consuming,
if we can keep
you on that path--
I once had a conversation
with an entrepreneur
who controlled the
Maxfield Oppenheimer
Trust out of Canada.
And we were talking about
this very thing, and I said,
I don't really get
the picture of debt.
Of course, if you're
in debt, there's
an enslavement idea to this.
I understand that.
But you have the
choice of that debt.
He says, let me
tell you something.
Eldon, if somebody comes
to your door, and they say,
I want your house, your ranch.
I like this spread.
This is just a nice spread.
I want you to move out.
I'm going to move in.
You're going to tell
them to go to Hades.
You're going to get
your gun, if necessary,
and drive them
off your property.
But Eldon, if they come to you
with a piece of paper in hand,
and they say to you,
you know, you just
didn't make your payments.
I regret to inform
you you're going
to have to leave your home.
You'll drop up
your head in shame,
because you've been
trained to do that.
You broke your word.
You failed.
You didn't live up to
society's expectation,
and you will walk away.
That's the power [INAUDIBLE].
>>REGINA: It's true.
The entire system is made
so that people are made
to feel less of themselves.
>>TAYLOR: Absolutely.
Every commercial
you will ever see
is designed to tell
you you're deficient.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>TAYLOR: If not, I
mean, look, I'm not
going to buy a life vest, if I
don't think I'm going to drown.
So it doesn't matter if
it's hair color or makeup
or clothing or automobiles.
All of it is aimed
psychologically at telling you
you're deficient.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about what happened.
I mean there are some
political instances
in the book that we'll
get to a couple of them,
but let's look at the
psychological fact
underpinnings that
they had to appeal to--
that's what I'm
interested in your work--
to make that happen.
>>TAYLOR: One candidate
used the latest
greatest in psychological
technology to engineer consent,
obviously, among more
than the other candidate.
Now if you remember when Barack
Obama ran in his last campaign,
he used what everybody
called the elite team
of social psychologists,
the guys that
wrote the books on compliance
principles, on manipulation.
And they orchestrated
every single word
that his canvassers
used, whether in person
or on the phone, and
positioned much of what
went on in his campaign.
And of course, he is
a tremendous speaker,
and that was a pretty
easy win over Romney.
On the other hand, along comes--
and Romney didn't
use any of this--
along comes Trump.
And Trump uses
Cambridge Analytics.
Cambridge Analytics begins to
look at where they have to win
and where they're behind.
So one thing they
were aware of is
there was some backlash among
law enforcement, backlash
among white males in
some areas, because there
was a perception that
Barack Obama was weak
on law enforcement,
that he favored,
indeed, a form of
reverse racism.
So they knew exactly
how to go after that,
and they won the white
male all across the board.
And they did so by appealing
to that audience on the basis
that there was a
preference given
by the president
to minority races.
So what they did was identify--
>>REGINA: Which was-- that was
a bias that had been projected
through the media already.
So you're saying they had
bought that particular bias
to the point of being--
>>TAYLOR: They took that bias,
and they made an example out
of it.
They heightened the fear.
Fear is a very common
motivating thing.
>>REGINA: Well, fear is the
primary mechanism, yeah.
>>TAYLOR: And any way you
look at this election,
fear is what the
dividing force was.
People that didn't vote
for Hillary Clinton
feared that she was just
dishonest, that they just
couldn't trust her, and if
they couldn't trust her, well,
then they had to put
their vote somewhere else.
>>REGINA: I know,
but the irony here
that was so interesting to me is
they feared she was dishonest,
where Trump was literally
caught in one lie after another,
and they said, well, at least
we know what we're getting.
You heard this over and over.
>>TAYLOR: I hate to
get into politics,
but that's an unfair statement,
because Hillary Clinton was
caught in one lie after
another, including, I hit
the ground running.
They were shooting
bullets at me.
So--
>>REGINA: But the point is that
half the public accepted that.
>>TAYLOR: But Trump
did a good job
in taking what analytics told
him and branding her the liar.
>>REGINA: Right, and she
didn't do as good a job
branding him the liar.
>>TAYLOR: No.
>>REGINA: That's true.
That is true.
>>TAYLOR: So he may have lied,
but we didn't hear much about
him as a liar, except from
Hillary's inner crowd--
>>REGINA: That's true.
>>TAYLOR: --as we did
about Hillary as the liar.
>>REGINA: They didn't go
after him the same way, yeah.
>>TAYLOR: So we took the data.
We said, where's her weakness?
And we started branding her.
It's called framing.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>TAYLOR: You put a framer--
see, people are really--
>>REGINA: So in your opinion,
it's because they successfully
fully framed her as a
liar, and they ddin't--
>>TAYLOR: Well, it's
one of the components.
Think about framing.
>>REGINA: No, I agree with you.
I agree with you.
They did not-- in
return, the other party
did not successfully go after
framing him in the same way.
So we're at an unequal
advantage there.
>>TAYLOR: They tried to frame
him in different ways that
didn't stick.
>>REGINA: It wasn't
consistent, yeah.
>>TAYLOR: And there
wasn't any consistency.
You've got the magic word there.
>>REGINA: So consistency is what
really matters in brainwashing.
>>TAYLOR: Absolutely.
You repeat the same lie over
and over again, it's believed.
The studies show us clearly
that even a retraction will not
change your mind.
You can know that something
is false that you heard,
and you'll still go on
believing it or repeating it.
We see entertainment
do this all the time.
>>REGINA: Like weapons
of mass destruction.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah.
Saturday Night Live says,
Sarah Palin, in an imitation,
in a mock thing, can see
Alaska from her kitchen.
You'll walk out there
and talk to people
and find that most people today
believe Sarah Palin actually
said she could see
Russia from her kitchen.
It never happened.
It just simply didn't happen.
But it was repeated
so many times,
that scene was shown over and
over, that people actually
accepted it.
Entertainment has a
way of doing that.
>>REGINA: Entertrainment, yeah.
>>TAYLOR: Well, that's right.
That's a good word.
>>REGINA: Entertrainment, yeah.
So OK, that's why--
I wanted to know in
your perception, what
was the primary message
that really got through that
allowed this to happen?
>>TAYLOR: Framing.
It's all about framing.
>>REGINA: So it was the
framing, and a lot of it
having to do with the
truthfulness of the candidates.
>>TAYLOR: Well--
>>REGINA: And so that's fine.
No, that's a good answer.
I just wanted to know what your
personal point of view on it
was.
>>TAYLOR: But also understand
that if I know how I can tweak
you, how I can get you,
even though you might be,
in this instance, a
Clinton supporter,
to slide over and
vote for Trump,
so we can take everybody
in Pennsylvania--
>>REGINA: So you have to appeal
to those fears and weaknesses.
>>TAYLOR: If I
target that audience,
I know who I want out
there, who's likely,
more likely than
others-- in other words,
I know white males
are more likely, say,
than a black male--
what message is it I need
to give those white males
to move them over here?
If I know what their
personality is,
I can find the weakness
that I can exploit,
and then I will go after that.
And that's exactly what
Cambridge Analytics did.
>>REGINA: Absolutely, and
because it really was a lot of,
I would say angry on one
hand, but I think more
than that, fearful
white men who feel
that their entitlements
were being taken away
after a black president, now
a potential female president,
and a lot of these white men
couldn't take it anymore.
So they went into a
retro state, and I
understand how that happens.
>>TAYLOR: There's a
lot of truth to that,
but that, too, can
become a soundbite.
We need to evaluate and
analyze that and understand--
>>REGINA: No, I get it.
>>TAYLOR: --that that isn't
the only reason he won,
and that that doesn't equate
to white supremacy or the KKK.
>>REGINA: Well, we did find
out how much hatefulness is
at the core of our society as
a result, probably the most--
I think the most
valuable thing that
might have come out
of all of this so far,
and it's still new, is that we
realized how divided we really
are and how prejudiced and
hateful at the core we really
are.
That was an astounding thing
for a country that actually
somewhat prided itself on having
some equality at its basis.
We realized that is not the
case, not in the subconscious.
This was a revelation of the
subconscious of the country.
>>TAYLOR: I agree totally.
Our long bags suddenly came out,
and the problem is it persists.
We see hateful remarks
from both sides,
and I've never seen
the likes of it.
>>REGINA: I've never seen this
amount of hatred made public
in my life.
>>TAYLOR: No.
But our social networking
and our 24/7 media--
they do a pretty
good job at seeing--
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about it.
Oh, boy, do they.
So let's talk about it.
So now we have as a country--
now this is kind of centric
to the United States.
The rest the world is
just watching thinking,
what just happened, and
how do we respond to this?
So that that's the
rest of the world,
and a lot of people from around
the world are watching this.
It's not just the US.
But in the US, because
we are being watched
to see what's going
to happen now,
because of the amount
of chaos, unrest
within the government,
outside of the government,
and within the population,
as a person that understands
hypnosis and understands
the power of programming
the subconscious
mind, what would you
say is the unique
opportunity to a nation that
is in shock, traumatized,
jubilant, divided,
moving into deep
patterns of hatred?
What is the unique
opportunity for those
who exploit among a population
like this in this state of mind
right now?
>>TAYLOR: See now therein
comes the question that
is among my favorite,
and it leads
back to what you said about
why "Gotcha," if all your work
has been about self-help?
Spirituality is
what our lives are
about as far as I'm concerned.
>>REGINA: Your background
was also as a pastor.
>>TAYLOR: That's correct.
>>REGINA: I mean you have a
deep interest, in your case,
Christian spirituality.
>>TAYLOR: I'm a
certified diplomat.
>>REGINA: Right,
spirituality, yeah.
>>TAYLOR: That's right.
So the bottom line
comes down to this.
If we're spiritual beings,
as we claim most of us
that we are, how can
all this animus, all
this froth of anger,
hate, including deceit,
how can we continue to
participate in that?
So what we have right now is a
trauma, and trauma, you know,
has this remarkable
healing power.
Trauma tends to send
us back to our roots.
>>REGINA: It does.
>>TAYLOR: Trauma tends to
make us stop for a minute
and view what's important.
What's the most important
thing in our lives?
With the division that we
have in the world today,
we have the
opportunity to, instead
of continue calling who's
right and who's wrong, to heal.
But we can't do that
without a broader picture.
We have to get out of this
notion that one side won,
and another side lost, and
one side wants to do this,
and the other side
wants to do that.
We have to get out of that, and
we have to stop and look at,
this is one people, one world,
one god, one spiritual system.
It doesn't matter what
you believe, as long
as what you do is your very best
to serve your fellow mankind.
I sit at the top.
We're hardwired for giving.
I have a four-cornered
philosophy about life
that I spell out very simply.
It's based on 40
years of research,
but that fourth corner
is called service.
Years ago, I had a
woman come to my offices
in Las Vegas, Nevada, had been
referred by a psychiatrist,
and she was suicidal.
Self-flagellation was a
regular thing with her.
She was on all kinds of
drugs, and it'd basically
come to a point where
they weren't sure
what they could do.
So she came to me for
pastoral counseling.
When I looked at her intake
sheets, the first thing I saw
was that her first therapist
was Milton Erickson.
You know who Milton Erickson is.
To me, he walks on water.
So I honestly had one of these
moments, where I thought,
I don't know what I could
do or what I would--
I mean I don't know why
I would see this person.
If he, Milton Erickson, couldn't
help her, what would I do?
But you know sometimes
in those moments,
we receive inspiration.
And I believe I
received inspiration.
So I agreed to see
her in what's called
brief therapy, 10 sessions,
once a week for 10 weeks.
Now this was a
suicidal individual,
but we had to have a contract.
She had to have homework, and
she had to do the homework,
or I'd just stop seeing her,
period, end of quotation.
But it was simple homework.
She was to obtain a journal, and
the first day that first week,
she was to do one good
deed every single day.
At the end of the day, she was
to write that good deed down.
Now this good deed had to be
for somebody she didn't know,
so this had to be for a stranger
or maybe for a fellow employee
that she didn't really like.
So you had to go out of your
way to do the good deed.
And at the end of the
night when she'd retire,
she were to write that
down in her journal,
what the good deed was, how
she thought it made that person
feel, and how it made her feel.
Week two, it was two.
Week three, it was three.
Week four, it was four.
We got up to five.
And you know, to begin with,
some of these good deeds
were pretty paltry.
But by the time 10
weeks were over,
she was off a lot of her drugs
and was no longer suicidal,
because self-esteem
isn't something
I get from the number
of degrees I've earned
or the awards I've won, the
trophies, the property I own,
the car I drive.
Self-esteem is something
I get from what I give.
She was lacking self-esteem.
She didn't feel she
was worth living.
She had a real set
of circumstances,
where her sister
had died, and she
felt that it was she
who should have died.
And I won't go into the detail,
but she had real circumstances.
But what she learned over
the course of this time
is that her life
made a difference,
and in that process, she
began to build self-esteem.
She began to realize
that life did have value.
All right, we're faced
with an opportunity here.
Each of us can continue to feed
the narrative that is negative,
or we can begin to feed a
service-oriented negative.
I don't know what's
going to happen.
>>REGINA: Narrative.
>>TAYLOR: I don't know
what Trump's going to do.
Maybe it will be
good for the country.
Maybe it won't be
But what is
absolutely devastating
the country is the division.
So it's time to step up and
start healing that division.
It's time to remind us
of what's important.
I'm going to tell you that
I've had the great opportunity
of dealing with elite athletes,
Hall of Fame athletes,
Fortune 500 executives
in my lifetime.
And they will all attest
to you that if what
you do in your life is about
service-- you're a plumber,
and you go to somebody's home.
And you ended up going there
just to collect your money
and fix a leaky faucet and
get on to the next house.
You can't wait until
lunchtime, but you're
going there to solve a
problem, to help this person.
If that's your
attitude, doesn't matter
what you do for a living--
plumber, electrician,
attorney, radio, TV host--
if that's your attitude,
you're there to help,
then your business will
prosper, and you will prosper,
because when you put your
head on the pillow at night,
you'll get this warm fuzzy
feeling, that feeling that
says, my life does
make a difference.
I was able to help
someone today.
I was able to go
to the aid of them,
and you are just
hardwired to then
be bathed with those wonderful
neurochemicals, the endorphins,
and you will feel better.
>>REGINA: I agree with you.
I think that was
brilliant strategy
that you used to work
with it, because it's
so simple but so true.
And I think of everything we've
talked about in this interview,
the most important
thing is exactly
that, what you've just said.
If we can find a way
to calm down the noise
and in our own way, offer
something of ourselves
into the world that we think
has some value to others,
then you're right.
That starts acting as a salve
and creating connective tissue
between people again.
I think that's very true,
because we've really--
that connective tissue has
been like totally broken down.
And so in your book,
really, I think
that's really what you're
working toward in that book is
this one thing.
You don't say it
in there, but how
do we build this
connective tissue?
And I only brought
it up, because I
think we do have a unique
situation being presented
to us as a culture right
now that could continue
to be traumatized by the
media in this divisiveness,
or it can-- and I
call it unplugged.
There are other
ways to get news--
unplug, and as you say, start
being of service to another.
Start employing classic virtues.
Start telling the truth.
That would be a good place.
>>TAYLOR: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Don't let these
politicians be our guide.
Start telling the truth
through each other.
So is that kind of-- is
that more what you're really
working toward in your book?
>>TAYLOR: And I think the
conclusion of "Gotcha,"
I hope people get
that out of it--
obviously, I didn't tell this
very particular story in there,
but the bottom line is
the most important thing
we can do with our own
lives is contribute.
>>REGINA: I agree.
>>TAYLOR: There is
no way in the world
we can go off in our closet or
in church once, twice a week
or how many times we pray
a day, be spiritual people
and be disengaged.
We need to be engaged, and
we need to help one another.
And to do that, we really
need to be informed and become
authentic.
Remember who we really are.
>>REGINA: I agree.
I agree with you, and it's
a good note to end on,
and I think it's a lovely
sentiment to leave people with.
>>TAYLOR: Wonderful.
Thank you very much.
I've appreciated the
opportunity to share.
>>REGINA: Thank you, Eldon.
Again, the title of the book
is, "Gotcha: The Subordination
of Free Will."
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.
[MUSIC PLAYING]